From https://ec.europa.eu/info/funding-tenders/opportunities/portal/screen/opportunities/topic-details/horizon-widera-2022-era-01-41

Topic description
=================

ExpectedOutcome:
----------------
Projects are expected to contribute to the following expected outcomes:

- Structured understanding of the underlying drivers, of concrete and effective
  interventions - funding, community-based, technical and policy - to increase
  reproducibility of the results of R&I; and of their benefits;

- Effective solutions, policy-, technical- and practice-based, to increase the
  reproducibility of R&I results in funding programmes, in communities and in
  the dissemination of scientific results;

- Greater collaboration, alignment of practices and joint action by stakeholders
  to increase reproducibility, including but not limited to training,
  specialised careers and guidelines for best practice.


These outcomes should contribute to medium and long-term impacts:

- Increased proportion of reproducible results from publicly funded R&I;
- Increased re-use of scientific results by research and innovation;
- Greater quality of the scientific production.

Scope:

Reproducibility refers to the possibility for the scientific community to obtain
the same results as the originators of a specific finding. As such,
reproducibility is core to scientific progress, and there is debate on whether
there is a ‘crisis of reproducibility’ in contemporary science. At a time when
funding levels for R&I are under scrutiny globally, and societal trust in the
outcomes of research and innovation become increasingly essential, there is a
need to address inefficiencies in the research process, to avoid useless and
costly repetition, to maximise return on investment in R&D&I, to prevent the
propagation of mistakes, and to facilitate the translation of results into
innovations.

Therefore, this topic aims to fund activities to

a) determine how increased reproducibility generates gains and savings in the
R&I process and improve overall performance - alongside the demonstrated
positive effects on their quality, integrity and trust-worthiness, and

b) find, experiment and mainstream concrete solutions and best-practices to
increase the reproducibility of research funded with European taxpayers’ money,
including through the more systematic integration of sex and gender as variables
whenever relevant.

Consequently, actions should help understand and promote reproducibility by:

1) creating an open knowledge base of results, methodologies and interventions
on the drivers and consequences of reproducibility for the R&I system; and to
fill the main gaps in such knowledge;

2) develop, validate, pilot and deploy practices and practical tools for
funders, publishers and scientists;

3) promote uptake, greater collaboration, and increased alignment of the
activities of stakeholders - scientific and technical communities, publishers
and funders among others - to increase reproducibility.

Finally, projects should assist further policy development on reproducibility,
based on scoping work by the Commission [1]. While solutions should be applicable
to Europe, attention should be paid to reproducibility in global science.

It is expected that the funded action(s) will adhere to best practices in open
science and reproducibility (e.g. re-use existing results, fully document the
research process), and provide a final reflection based on their own experience
at the forefront of reproducibility.

[1]i.e. https://data.europa.eu/doi/10.2777/341654 -> see file
scoping-report-reproducibility-of-scientific-results-in-the-EU.pdf
